readme.md, before:

# NASA APOD Time-Capsule

[NASA APOD API](https://api.nasa.gov/index.html)

## RESTful Architecture + DB Schema

![](design/whiteboard.jpg)
![](design/db-schema.jpg)

## Try Me

After cloning the repo from Github run the following from the root of the project:

```bash
cp .env.sample .env
```

```es6
/* 
   update DEV_DATABASE_URI in newly created .env to reflect your local
   machine's PostgreSQL credentials to run a local db
   
   run the following commands at the root of the project
*/
```

```bash
npm i && npm run migrate && npm run seed && npm start
```

### To reset the db at anytime

```es6
npm run resetdb
```

### Endpoints

## Guidelines

- use API linked above
- **ALL** input + output data must be in JSON format
- use Express.js framework

## Functionality

- fetch **AND** save photo to the database
- create and delete users (e-mail field only)
- save a 1-5 star rating of a picture for a user
- allow user to update rating
- allow user to delete a rating
- get all of a user's ratings

## Steps

1. Choose database
    1. I am choosing a Sqlite3 database for sake of simplicity
2. Create github repo with a README
    1. I will be making this repo private just to ensure e-mails are not exposed in the future for any reason
3. Make @bryanlanders a collaborator on repo
4. Whiteboard a RESTful architecture (export JPG and include on README page)
5. Code your endpoints
6. Have your pair partner test your API locally
7. Build unit tests for API

Commit message:

server has 3 successful endpoints and I am successfully insertng new photos into the db

readme.md, after:

# NASA APOD Time-Capsule

[NASA APOD API](https://api.nasa.gov/index.html)

## RESTful Architecture + DB Schema

![](design/whiteboard.jpg)
![](design/db-schema.jpg)

## Try Me

After cloning the repo from Github run the following from the root of the project:

```bash
cp .env.sample .env
```

```es6
/* 
   update DEV_DATABASE_URI in newly created .env to reflect your local
   machine's PostgreSQL credentials to run a local db
   
   updating APOD_API_KEY is not necessary if you follow the instructions below
   and seed the db
   
   run the following commands at the root of the project
*/
```

```bash
npm i && npm run migrate && npm run seed && npm start
```

### To reset the db at anytime

```es6
npm run resetdb
```

### Endpoints
GET /
retrieves all photos stored in db

GET /today
retrieves photo of the day
{TODO add middleware logic to tie in POST request for new photo}

POST /check-today
adds photo of the day to db

## Guidelines

- use API linked above
- **ALL** input + output data must be in JSON format
- use Express.js framework

## Functionality

- fetch **AND** save photo to the database
- create and delete users (e-mail field only)
- save a 1-5 star rating of a picture for a user
- allow user to update rating
- allow user to delete a rating
- get all of a user's ratings

## Steps

1. Choose database
    1. I am choosing a Sqlite3 database for sake of simplicity
2. Create github repo with a README
    1. I will be making this repo private just to ensure e-mails are not exposed in the future for any reason
3. Make @bryanlanders a collaborator on repo
4. Whiteboard a RESTful architecture (export JPG and include on README page)
5. Code your endpoints
6. Have your pair partner test your API locally
7. Build unit tests for API
